# E-Commerce

The E-commerce layered model in Fragmenta, corresponding to section 4 of [1]. There are two models corresponding to abstract (Fig. 19a) and concrete layers (Fig. 19 b), and the two instances of the concrete layer, one valid (Fig. 19c) and another invalid (Fig. 19d).

The files with extension .fr, .gfg, .gm, gwt provide the definitions of fragments, GFGs/models, type morphisms, and instances (graphs with typing), respectively, using a textual notation.

The different fragments, models and compositions, as generated by Fragmenta/Graphviz, are available in 'img/';  they are as follows:
- F_\<N\>.pdf: the different individual fragments of two models.
- M_\<M\>_gfg: The global fragments graphs of the two models, where M is either 'AC' (abstract commerce) or 'CC' (concrete commerce)
- M_\<M\>_Mdl: The models and all its fragments, where M is either 'AC' (abstract commerce) or 'CC' (concrete commerce)
- M_\<M\>_uf: The union of all the fragments of the two models, where M is either 'AC' (abstract commerce) or 'CC' (concrete commerce)
- M_\<M\>_rf: The resolved fragments corresponding to the two models, where M is either 'AC' (abstract commerce) or 'CC' (concrete commerce)
- CI1: A valid instance of the concrete e-comerce model.
- CI1: An invalid instance of the concrete e-comerce model.

The linux/macos script 'runECommerce.sh' will do the required checks on the models and generate the different diagrams; it requires an installation of Haskell.

## References

1. Nuno Amálio. *Enhancing Expressivity, Modularity and Rigour of Graphical Data Modelling with Fragmenta*. To be published in ACM TOSEM. 2025.