# Pets World
The Pets World layered model in Fragmenta, corresponding to section 2 of [1]. There are two models corresponding to the abstract layer, the hotel worl model (Fig. 1), the concrete layer, the Pets world model (Fig. 2), and the instances of the concrete layer (includes the valid instance of Fig. 4).

The files with extension .fr, .gfg, .gm, gwt provide the definitions of fragments, GFGs/models, type morphisms, and instances (graphs with typing), respectively, using a textual notation.

The different fragments, models and compositions, as generated by Fragmenta/Graphviz, are available in 'img/';  they are as follows:
- F_\<N\>.pdf: the different individual fragments of two models.
- M_\<M\>_gfg: The global fragments graphs of the two pets world models, where M is either 'AHW' or 'PW'
- M_\<M\>_Mdl: The models and all its fragments, where M is either 'AHW' or 'PW'
- M_\<M\>_uf: The union of all the fragments of the two models, where M is either 'AHW' or 'PW'
- M_\<M\>_rf: The resolved fragments corresponding to the two models, where M is either 'AHW' or 'PW'
- PetRoomWorld_I1: A valid instance of the pets world model.
- PetRoomWorld_I2: An invalid instance of the pets world model.

The linux/macos script 'runPetsWorld.sh' will do the required checks on the models and generate the different diagrams; it requires an installation of Haskell.

## References

1. Nuno Amálio. *Enhancing Expressivity, Modularity and Rigour of Graphical Data Modelling with Fragmenta*. To be published in ACM TOSEM. 2025.